## Introduction to Dynamics

**Note: scale is important**. Normally, the units in Cheetah 3D are dimensionless. Something 3 units long is 3 times as long as something 1 unit long, but there’s no concept of absolute scale. With Dynamics, however, all the default settings of the Dynamics system assume a scale of 1.0 unit = 1.0 meter. If you operate at some other scale, you’ll need to mess with lots and lots of settings, and there are probably assumptions “baked into” the implementation (e.g. soft body behavior).

**Note**: if you grew up with the Imperial system — which is still used in the United States and Myanmar — you may find it helpful to memorize the following ratios: 1m = 39.37’ and 1kg = 2.2lb.

Cheetah 3D’s Dynamics system is wonderfully simple to set up and use. The basic idea is very simple.

- By default — objects ignore and are ignored by the Dynamics system.

- If you want an object to exhibit dynamic behavior, you assign it one or more Dynamics tags.

- Assign a **Rigid Body** tag to objects that don’t deform and which other objects will bump into. Make its type **static** if you want it to remain fixed in place (think of objects that are solid and massive, such as the ground). Leave it **dynamic** (the default setting) if you want it to behave like a real object (i.e. fall under gravity, get knocked around by impacts, and so on). Make it **kinematic** if you want it to move it manually (e.g. literally by moving it around in real time, or using the animation system), but affect other objects when it bumps into them.

- Assign a **Rope** tag to a spline that you want to behave like a rope.

- The **Anchor** tag lets you fix specified points of an object (which can be a rope, rigidbody, or soft body) in its local space. If you assign an object to the anchor tag, those specified points will instead by fixed to that object.

- Assign a **Soft Body** tag to objects that deform. Softbodies behave like cloth or fluid-filled sacks.

Once you’ve set up the objects you want to simulate using Dynamics Tags, simply hit “play” and their behavior will be simulated by the Dynamics system.

For complex simulations you can “bake” a simulation (precalculate its results) and store the results in the scene. This will save Cheetah 3D the trouble of recalculating the motion of objects whose motion has been baked.

### Setting Up a Simple Simulation

Setting up a simulation in Cheetah 3D is amazingly straightforward. (I say this having set up dynamic simulations in other programs.)

For a quick example:

1. Create a new scene.

2. Create a cube, move it up a few units, and rotate it randomly. Assign a rigidbody tag to it.

3. Now create a plane and make it big (10x10 say). Now assign a rigidbody to it and set its type to “static”.

4. Press play!

