## The Falcon Renderer

The new “falcon” renderer is a “uni-directional path tracer”  which allows for long-requested enhancements to C3D’s output. The old renderer is still there for anyone needing to replicate the “look” of renders from earlier versions of C3D, or needing features that haven’t been brought forward into the new world. Also, in simple cases, the old renderer may be faster than the new renderer.

### Top Ten Reasons to Use Falcon

1. _Immediate_ render feedback on the whole scene (yes, it’s grainy, but you can quickly tell whether you need to do more tweaking).

2. **Motion Blur**. And it’s free. (Note that to get motion blur right now you need to render an animation, not a single frame, and it will only appear in the second and subsequent frames of the render — this is a known bug.)

3. **Far less tweaking** required to get complex lighting effects working. You basically don’t need to use render tags at all.

4. **Radiosity/AO not needed**. Falcon is a physical renderer and does the right stuff automatically. No more weird corner artifacts and blotches. No more guessing error values.

5. **Cool, (formerly) expensive effects** — depth of field, blurred reflections, blurred transparency — you probably avoid because they slow down rendering and require huge amounts of trial and error _just work_ and are _free_!

6. Rather than guessing at quality settings you can just **set samples to 0** and let it render until you like what you see.

7. Generally, **realistic lighting setups work** and less fakery is needed.

8. **Changing the number of samples** (e.g. to render a quick animatic or test lighting samples) is a _single, simple operation_ that doesn’t require monkeying with multiple camera settings.

9. **HDRI lighting works better** (i.e. perfectly) in Falcon (e.g. it’s easy to get sharp shadows from a good HDR by setting clamp to 0).

10. **Be surprised by awesomeness** instead of glitches.

